## [nnU-Net: a self-configuring method for deep learning-based biomedical image segmentation](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41592-020-01008-z)

Auto deep learning paper for biomedical image segmentation, this paper focusses on creating a standardized pipeline for developing ML solution to segmentation without the need for expert knowledge and overcoming specialized models which are highly dependent on dataset properties. nnU-net is a deep learning-based segmentation method that automatically configures itself, including preprocessing, network achitecture, training and post-processing for any new task in de biomedical domain. In order to do so, nnU-Net analyses the dataset for specific fingerprints, such as spacing, median shape, intensity and image modality to select out of a network of rule based parameters, e.g. normalization strategies. Next together with some fixed hyper parameters 3 networks, either 2D, 3D or 3DC are trained and either 1 or an ensemble is selected for predictions on the test data. nnU-net is trained for 53 different datasets consisting of 2D and 3D applications as well as different imaging technologies, outperforming state of the art for 33 of these datasets.

#### Notes

- The data fingerprinting / perprocessing is great and a very good pipeline for autoML, I would have liked to see more autoML features in the network selection, as there are many fixed parameters such as the architecture template. I think this was mainly done to reduce the search space and thereby limiting the required computing power required.
- it outperforms 33 out of 55, which is great and has a major advantage by its generic nature. However, 22 state of the art perform better, which is import in biomedical application as each performs increase could impact, without being dramatic, a persons life.
- Food for thought: further than segmentation