## [Systematic review of sarcomas radiomics studies: Bridging the gap between concepts and clinical applications?](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0720048X20304721)

Good assessment of 'what is out there' about the use of Radiomics for sarcomas, in order to limit the need for histopathology and molecular analysis, which, by definition, rely on biopsy samples at risk of sampling bias. Here sarcomas are highlighted, which are malignant mesenchymal ubiquitous tumors that can affect bone, soft tissues or the viscera, and are characterized by their heterogeneity at all levels. While somewhat standardized methods are used to define the effectiveness of radiomics studies, such as Radiomics Quality Score (RQS) and Image Biomarkers Standardization Initiative (IBSI), the next challenge for radiomics is to overcome the turning point between proof of concept and real-life application. In this review, radiomics sarcoma papers were scanned by several researchers, to assess descriptive analysis of the study, estimation of RQS, estimation of the quality of image processing and feature extraction, estimation of the statistical or machine-learning pipeline and the results of the study. A total of 52 articles were included for this pipeline and statistically analyses. In conclusion, the review states that the quality of sarcoma radiomics studies is low on average, which may hamper the reproducibility of radiomics models of external cohorts and, therefore, practical application of these models. It highlight the need of clearly described methodology for reproducibility and comparability with other studies.

#### Notes

- Doesn't give an overview about how papers or methods work
- Just an inventory of what is currently published about radiomics for sarcoma
- Important! review suggest test-retest as an important analysis as would I.
- The paper gives a pretty grim look on the world of Sarcoma Radiomic papers...